

Thank you so much. Boy! I’ve got to tell you I am thrilled to be back here and I am delighted to have been introduced by Pavitra. She is just one of the many extraordinary people who are helping me organize for the caucus on February 1st. So I am grateful to her and I am grateful to all of you.

We’ve got some precinct captains and leaders here who are part of my campaign team and I thank each and every one of you. Now I want to say just a few words and then I want to answer your questions, because that’s the most important part of what we’re doing here today.

But it was exciting for me—and I wanted to tell you, I went to Cedar Valley TechWorks today. Wow, that was impressive and it was exciting to see what is happening right here in this area because of the great partnership between the University of Northern Iowa and Hawkeye Community College.

And I met young people, students, some of them seniors, a couple of them freshmen, everything in between who are learning the skills that will not only get them good jobs but will help to make this part of Iowa an advanced manufacturing center for the country and the world.

And I can’t tell you how important that is. I went with Senator Bill Dotzler. Bill is, I think, still here. Thank you Bill and also with Representative Bob Kressig. They were both great tour guides for me.

And it gave me the chance to ask a lot of questions and get to what I want to do to make it possible not only for TechWorks to be an even bigger success but how we do more of that in Iowa and across America.

I want to start though with just a few remarks about the recent event in California. We’re all working to make sense if there is such a thing to be made out of this terrorist attack. And I know that our local law enforcement, the FBI, our intelligence community, are working overtime as hard as they can to piece together what happened, what we can do to prevent it in the future.

I have been laying out my plans for how we defeat ISIS and how we protect ourselves from homegrown terrorist attacks and I will keep talking about that. I will answer your questions because this election is not only about choosing a president, it is about choosing a commander-in-chief and we have to be really focused on what we need to do to show leadership and to act in accordance with our values.

This convention center, this conference center, is named, as you all know here in Waterloo for the five Sullivan brothers. It’s hard to imagine a greater sacrifice by any family, all five of them going down on the USS Juneau, the same attack after they had said they all wanted to serve together.

When they joined the Navy, that’s what they requested. So every time any of you drive by here or walk in here, you just have to be reminded of the courage and the sacrifice of generations of Americans before us, who acted with resolve, not fear. It is ok to be afraid. There is no reason not to be afraid. When bad things happen, it does cause anxiety and fear. But then you pull yourself together, and especially if you want to be a leader of our country, and you say, “Ok, what are we going to do about it?

You say, “Ok, what are we going to do about it? How are we going to be prepared? What is your plan?” But instead of showing leadership, some of the candidates in this presidential campaign are resorting to really ugly, hateful rhetoric.

Donald Trump—you know he does traffic in prejudice and paranoia. It’s not only shameful, it’s dangerous. So when he says he wants to stop all Muslims from entering the United States, that runs counter to what I and others who have actually been in the Situation Room, making hard choices, know we have to do.

We have to enlist help from American Muslims, Muslims around the world in defeating the radical jihadists and the hateful ideology that they represent. Instead Donald Trump is supplying them with new propaganda. He is playing right into their hands. Now some of the other Republican candidates have finally said that these latest comments have gone too far, but the truth is a lot of them have said some pretty extreme things too.

Their language may be more veiled, less dramatic but their ideas aren’t so different. And they are also undermining our ability to pull the world together against these terrorists. This a fight we have to win and I intend to do everything I can because it is a fight against a brutal enemy who twists a religion, Islam, to justify mass murder.

The vast majority of Muslims, here and abroad, are on our side in this fight and remind us all the time that they are the primary victims of the attacks and the brutality coming from these terrorist organizations. A lot of them are working to try to make common cause with us to prevent radicalization.

So now is the time for all of us. I don’t care what party we are. It’s time for all of us to be united. That’s what we’re supposed to do as Americans.

Come together, defend ourselves, take on this struggle. So I will continue to speak out and I will continue to lay out my plans. I’ve laid about the most specific plans about how we take them on and defeat them—from the air, on the ground and in cyberspace. And I will keep advocating for what I think are strong, smart strategies.

But I’m also here today to talk about something else we must do and that is: continue to rebuild our economy to create more good-paying jobs with rising incomes for hardworking Americans. I know that our republican friends want us to forget about the Great Recession, don’t they?

Well I’m not going to let them forget it. It is a fact; the economy does better when we have a democrat in the White House.

That is just a fact.

Unemployment is lower, incomes are higher and you are four times as likely to have a recession when there is a republican in the White House. Now I’m not asking people to go back to ancient history; just go back the last 35 years. We’ve had five presidents—three republicans and two democrats.

Now I know both of those democrats. And I know both of them inherited economic problems from their republican predecessors. I remember shortly after the ’92 election, my husband saying to me “It is so much worse than they told us.”

And it was. We were heading into a recession. republicans had quadrupled the national debt of our country in the prior 12 years, under their stewardship. So Bill got to work. At the end of eight years, we had 23 million new jobs, incomes went up for everybody—the top, the middle, working folks and more people were lifted out of poverty than at any time in recent American history.

But you know, I will give the republicans this: they are consistent. Consistently wrong, but consistent. So back they came with trickle-down economics—slash taxes on the wealthy, get out of the way of corporations, don’t pay attention to what’s happening in the financial markets or the mortgage markets. And you know what happened.

Shortly after the ’08 election, President-elect Obama called me, asked me to come see him in Chicago. I didn’t know why. It turned out he wanted me to be secretary of state, but before we got to that, it was just he and I and we were talking. And he looks at me and says, “It is so much worse that they told us.”

I said, “president-elect, I’ve heard that before!” And you know what? It was really bad—and I want you to remember this we were losing 800,000 jobs a month, nine million Americans lost their jobs, five million homes were lost. $13 trillion in family wealth disappeared.

Now, I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for making sure we didn’t fall into a Great Depression, and began working with our businesses and our families to pull us out. So we’re standing but we’re not yet running the way America should.

I want to build on what works—I have this old-fashioned idea that we should stop doing what doesn’t work and start doing what does work. Now, I’m not running for my husband’s third term or President Obama’s third term. I’m running for my first term, but I’m going to do what works to get this economy going.

Now, I’ve traveled across Iowa and I’ve had the great privilege of really talking and listening with folks. I started off with small groups because I wanted to hear what was on people’s minds. So I’ve heard about the financial struggles, the economic challenges, the cost of everything going up, the unfairness that the people at the top are doing well again and a lot of folks still haven’t had a raise.

And there is something fundamentally wrong when the top 25 hedge fund managers in America make more money than all the kindergarten teachers in America combined.

There’s just something really wrong about this. So my goal is to make the economy work for everybody—the struggling, striving, the successful. I want us to get back to where we were before the republicans came back into office and destroyed what my husband left behind and then handed the biggest mess they could imagine to President Obama.

Now these republicans if you hear them, they are saying the same thing. What’s their economic agenda? Cut taxes on the super wealthy, get out of the way of corporations, take off the regulations which we finally got put on them after they wrecked the economy. They are consistent—consistently wrong, but consistent. And I love it when they criticize the president. They say things like, “This is the slowest recovery in American history.” You’ve heard that right?

You listen to the debates or you watch them and they say, “A terrible, slow recovery.” Honest to goodness, that takes a lot of nerve.

We would not had needed to recover if they hadn’t drive us into the big ditch in the first place! So I get pretty worked up about this, but let me tell you what I want to do because I think—number one, more good-paying jobs, number two, raises for Americans.

Now I announced earlier this month a five-year, $275 billion plan to invest in our infrastructure on top of what the Congress finally got around to passing. It took years for them to pass what used to be just ordinary course of business. When I was in the Senate, we had differences, but we worked them out in order to get things done so we could build roads and repair bridges and tunnels and airports and ports and rail systems.

Everything that is important to get the economy really moving to be competitive. So I want us to do more. We are woefully behind in what we need to do to really have a 21st century transportation system. We need to finally get broadband Internet connectivity that is high-speed to every part of America, because that will improve jobs and education and businesses.

Now this week I’ve put forth another critical piece of my jobs plan. And that is supporting American manufacturing, which is why I was thrilled to go to TechWorks. Reviving manufacturing, especially advanced manufacturing, is essential to creating the good jobs of the future.

Now I know there are people in our country who basically say we can’t do it. They’re really pessimistic about manufacturing. I just fundamentally disagree. And if they would go look at what’s going on at TechWorks, they would also see the light. There is so much America can do.

When I went to Cedar Valley TechWorks, I saw the biggest 3-D printing machine in all of North America. And I saw students and faculty teaching them how to use this new machine. And I heard about the plans to be able to work with businesses, even rent time, help design what is needed to get manufacturing really moving into the 21st century. It’s amazing. I want more Americans to have the chance to work with that kind of technology.

I want us to lead the world in advanced manufacturing. I asked where that big machine was made. Germany, they said. I said, “So what are we going to do about that?”

I admire the Germans; they have stayed on the forefront of advanced manufacturing. And I was really happy when the answer from the faculty member came back: “We’re working with some folks in Ohio, we’re going to see if we can’t figure out how to produce this machine in America.

That’s the kind of thinking that I really want as president to promote more of. We’ve got to look again into the future. We’ve got to be confident about what we can do. And I was so pleased that Bill and Bob told me how hard they have fought to make that possible, to get the state legislature, no easy task, to go along with buying that kind of machinery.

But if we don’t invest in the future, we won’t be able to shape the future. And that’s what I want to do and that’s why my plan includes what’s called a New Manufacturing Renaissance Tax Credit. It’s aimed at driving more investment to communities that have lost manufacturing jobs.

To stop the downward spirals. You know it here in Iowa. I see it all over our country. A factory cuts back or even leaves, it’s devastating to the community and we need to get in ahead of time. And we need to have a kind of SWAT team response, to be able to help communities invest in something new. And we need to have the Federal government working with the state, and local government, the private sector, great colleges like Hawkeye and UNI. Second, we have to do more to help prepare American workers to compete for these advanced manufacturing jobs. That’s what I saw today. I wish everybody had been with me to meet these young people. They were so impressive. They are all from around here. They are all studying to try to become a real master of advanced manufacturing, using these 3-D printing machines. I am proposing more training programs and apprenticeships, including a $1500 tax credit for every apprentice a business hires. Because I want businesses to be working hand in hand with organized labor to help train the workforce of the future.

Now you can ask and you should: how do we pay for this? Well we pay for the investments in our manufacturing sector here at home by closing those loopholes that make it easy for the wealthy corporations to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.

Now I am passionate about this, because the maneuvers that powerful corporations are using to game the system and leave everybody else holding the bag are just offensive to me. Let me just mention one: you may have heard of something called an “inversion.” This is a technical term for a trick.

An American company merges with a smaller, foreign company so it can move overseas on paper and then avoid paying its fair share of taxes here in the United States. And then once they’re overseas, they can exploit even more loopholes like moving profits to a country with even lower tax rates. That’s a trick called “earnings stripping.”

Now corporations that use tax games like these end up paying a lot less to the United States Treasury. Now you may have seen in the news about the proposed merger of Pfizer, a huge American drug company, with a much smaller Irish drug company. That’s an example of an inversion.

A big company goes looking for a small company in a place where the taxes are lower and then they claim that they are moving the important assets of the company there. Now all told, inversions by Pfizer and the companies plus related loopholes, will cost American taxpayers more than $80 billion over the next 10 years. That’s money we should be investing right here and it’s not right.

“Think about how much we have spent over many years, we taxpayers, helping create the conditions that let corporations succeed here, like Pfizer and other drug companies. They have created new drugs with help from federally funded drug research. They’ve also counted on the FDA to give them the go-ahead.

“Think about all these companies that rely on our infrastructure, our legal system, our police, our Fire Departments, our schools, our health care system every single day. Now some do the right thing and pay their fair share of taxes, but others are doing everything they can to avoid them.

Fundamentally, this is not only about fairness; this is about patriotism. If you become successful in America—if you have the chance to start a business because of the freedom that young men like the five Sullivan brothers gave their lives to preserve, if you have benefited from American tax dollars and have flourished because of all the things that make America great, you should pay what you owe just like everybody else.

So here’s what I am proposing: first, Congress should act to stop these inversions like Pfizer’s. Second, I’m calling on Congress to impose something called an exit tax on the untaxed earnings of corporations that they stash overseas. I’m going to raise the cost to these corporations that try to get out of paying their fair share.

And third, I’m announcing today that as president, I would close loopholes like what’s called “earnings stripping” that corporations are exploiting. And if Congress won’t act, then I will ask the Treasury Department when I’m there to use its regulatory authority, if that’s what it takes.

Here’s the bottom line: corporations don’t need a tax break; you do. And I’m the only candidate in this campaign who has said, “I want to raise your incomes, not your taxes.” And as I lay out more proposals, including fighting against unfair trade practices and currency manipulation, we will look for ways how we can compete and win in the global economy.

I’m excited about what we can do together, but I need your help. I’m asking you to join us and you can do it right now by texting “join,” J-O-I-N, to 47246. I’m asking you to talk to your friends, your neighbors, your family if you are together over the holidays. Make sure everyone you know in Iowa is ready to caucus on February 1st.

How many of you have ever caucused before? Okay, thank you for that and those of you who haven’t, come [inaudible] this historic tradition that Iowa has pioneered. Together, we can win Iowa and then, once we do that, we’ll turn around and start working to win in November against whoever the republicans nominate as their candidate and to build the kind of future that I saw at TechWorks today. Thank you all very much!
