

Well thank you, Jaiza—that was great! And let me thank all of the speakers who preceded me, I am so grateful to have such a wonderful lineup of elected officials and advocates who came before you to express themselves and talk about the stakes in this election.

And I look out, and I see people of different ages and different backgrounds, and I thank each and every one of you for coming here because you know what’s at stake in this election.

And I’ve been talking about a lot of those during the course of this campaign. And will continue to do so.

But today, I want to talk about the stakes for women and girls. Because this next election will determine who our next president is—as well as the makeup of the Senate and the House. And I often when I’m listening to people running for office, try to understand, are they really going to try to do what they say they’re going to do?

And I’m a little nervous that the people on the other side are actually going to try to do what they say they’re going to do.

And that would be turning the clock back on the rights of women, of the LGBT community, of people with disabilities, of poor people, of working people of union members … it’s a long list of people they are taking aim at.

That’s why I want in the next months, as we go through this election, for people to really understand how it will affect you, and what you care about.

You know, 20 years ago, this month, I was privileged to go to Beijing, China, to represent the United States at an international conference on women. And there was a lot of controversy about whether I should go or not. Controversy seems to follow me around in case you haven’t noticed. It’s sort of part of the territory. But there was a debate–it was kind of a legitimate debate. Did we want to send, at that time, the first lady of the United States to China? Would that in some way help the Chinese? They were keeping political prisoners they wouldn’t release … it was quite complicated. But luckily I was able to go and I was able to say on behalf of our country that human rights are women’s rights and women’s rights are human rights.

Now one would think that need to be said, right? Well we’ve made some progress and I’m very grateful about that but we still have work to do even in our own country. We still have too many women working at minimum wage jobs who can’t even get themselves and their kids out of poverty. We still have too many women who don’t get equal pay for equal work no matter how hard they work.

We still have too many women trying to balance their family responsibilities with their work responsibilities with hardly any help at all. We make it really difficult in America to get quality affordable child care. To take time off and not lose your job. To take time off and get paid when you have a baby or you’re taking care of somebody in the family that is sick or needy.

We know that women in the workforce today is not a luxury for the vast majority of us; it’s a necessity. Especially after the terrible impact of the great recession. And yet so many women now are not in the workforce because they can’t make it add up. I had a young woman holding her baby in her arms in Newton, Iowa, just a few days ago saying, “I need time off. I need some time off without losing my job, and I’m not the only one. I’ve got to get this baby off to a good start. I think it’s the most important job I’ll ever do.” And I agree with that. Yes, important absolutely.

So that’s why I am running to raise the minimum wage, to end the disgrace of something called the Tift minimum wage, you may not know about this, but this is where if you work in certain jobs like a hair salon or you’re a waitress or maybe a bartender … you can be paid only $2.13 an hour because the idea is you’re supposed to make up the rest in tips. And you know what happens? That money doesn’t get to the people that earned it. Wages are actually stolen.

So we’re going to end that. We’re going to raise the minimum wage with no exceptions for everybody. And then we are once and for all going to enforce equal pay for equal work so that every woman gets her fair due.

And I am promoting seven days of paid sick leave and 12 weeks of paid family leave for men and women when you need it!

Now some people say to me, well, how will that work economically? Well it works in most of the rest of the advanced economic world, and it works in a far off place known as California. So I know it can work, we just have to make up our minds if we want it to work. And I am going to be a strong advocate for strong families because when families are strong America is strong. And if we don’t support families in dealing with the challenges that they face, we can’t have the kind of country we all know we want.

I feel so strongly as president, I will and of course must will take care of the big problems that you read about, see on your screens. Of course, whether its refugees or ISIS or Russian aggression or climate change. All those big issues we have to address.

But I also want to be the president who helps work on those problems that keep you up at night. What happens when you finally get that job and then you can’t find affordable childcare you trust. What happens when you work really hard to not only support yourself and your family but you want to go back to school and you can’t afford it? Or you start and it gets too expensive? And then you wonder wait a minute, wait, where’s my future?

I met a young woman in Iowa who told me that she has three kids she’s supporting, she went back to community college and she’s working as hard as she knows how. She wants to improve her job chances. She said you know look, I’m not asking for anything special. But why does it have to be so hard?

And the answer is no, it doesn’t have to be so hard. It doesn’t have to be so expensive to be able to go to college. And you have to come out with so much debt? No, you don’t. We’re going to make college affordable for everybody.

And we’re also going to help you refinance your debt if you already have student debt. And we’re going to allow you to tie the payments to your income and we’re going to put a date certain that if you fulfill your obligations to pay that lower amount, at some point it ends. Because you cannot continue to have that burden.

So, we have work to do to make it work again. Make it work for everybody, not just those at the top who it works for quite well. I know that. But to make it work for everybody. And particularly to make it work for women. Because, I’ll tell you why.

The principal mission of my campaign and my presidency is to raise incomes. That terrible Great Recession just knocked everybody down, didn’t it. People really faced tough times. They lost jobs, they lost their homes. But we’re coming back, thank goodness.

We’re standing but we’re not yet running again. And we have to start figuring out how we’re going to raise incomes for everybody.

I’ve met a lot of hardworking men and women over the course of the last months who tell me, look, I’m not asking for anything special. I just want to get back to where I was before the Great Recession hit me. I want to have the security that I know that I can take care of my family. That I can plan for the future.

So I have a specific set of objectives—we’re going to make the rich pay their fair share—and they’re going to have to contribute to making this country work again for everybody. To making the middle class mean something again for everybody. That’s what built America.

We’re going to end the loopholes and the deductions. We’re going to end something called carried interest, which should never have been allowed in the first place. We’re going to incentivize profit sharing. If you help corporations make a profit, you ought to be able to share in that profit because of your hard work.

I know we can do this, some people say well how will you get it done. And I realize that is a challenge because we’ve got a pretty dysfunction mess in Washington. But I worked across the aisle as a senator for eight years, I worked with Republicans as secretary of state. I know there is no substitute for working hard every single day to try to find common ground.

And I will do that. I will meet any time anywhere with anyone to find common ground. To help raise incomes, to provide better opportunities for all of our people.

But I will also stand my ground. I will stand my ground, I will defend a woman’s right to choose. And I will defend Planned Parenthood from these political partisan attacks. I will also defend marriage equality and work with you to end discrimination against the LGBT community. I will defend voting rights from the concerted attacks that are going on across the country to eliminate the right to vote. I will do everything I can to overturn Citizens United and its pernicious effects on our political system.

I will work for comprehensive immigration reform so that we lift people up and create even more opportunity for those who are here.

I will work to make sure that once again we have respect between our law enforcement and the communities they police. And that requires us to make some changes together, and to understand clearly that black lives matter.

So I think the stakes could not be higher in this election. Because some people want it to be about everything other than what they would do when they were president.

I think it is really matters that people tell you what they will do and how they intend do it, not just in broad strokes but in detail because how are you, the voter, supposed to be able to make up your minds? And this is one of the most consequential decisions you will make. Now look, I happen to believe that our country and our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House. And I think the evidence for that is compelling.

I think you can go way back in our history and see the effects but I’ll just limit myself to the last 35 years. We’ve had five presidents, three Republicans and two Democrats and I have been very privileged to know both the Democrats. And, I can tell you when my husband ran for president, and Ohio was so good to him, it was about putting people first, right? And we needed to put people first because we had to change what was going on in the country, particularly the economy. It wasn’t working for everybody and we had an exploding deficit and we had quadrupled in just 12 years, the debt of our country, something that young people would have to bear.

So after the election Bill said, “Oh my gosh. It is so much worse than they told us.” Because sometimes you don’t get all the information inside until you are there. So he got to work. And it wasn’t easy. It never is easy. But after eight years, we had the longest peacetime expansion in history. We had 23 million new jobs and most importantly everybody’s income went up. Not just the top, the middle, the bottom, everybody’s income went up.

And, we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus. And, I was pretty excited about that because I was on my way to the Senate. And I thought, “Oh my gosh, we have our financial destiny in our hands.” We now can do what we must do to put our country on the solidest foundation for the future, for the next generation and the generations after that. We can make sure Social Security is solvent for as far as the I can see. We can make sure Medicare is. We can make investments in growing our economy in the kinds of new technologies, innovations that marks America. I was really excited.

I get there first thing: New Republican president wants a huge tax cut. Remember that? So I said, Look, I’m a senator now, I can express myself. I said we could have a moderate tax cut. You know, I get accused of being kind of moderate, center. I plead guilty. I think sometimes it is important when you are in the elected arena, you figure out how to bring people together to get something done instead of standing on opposite sides yelling at each other. So I said, okay, let’s have a moderate tax cut. I voted for one. No we had a big one passed. OK, it passed.

Fast-forward a few months, I am the senator from New York. We get attacked on 9/11 and it’s going to cost billions of dollars to secure our country, to rebuild New York, to rebuild the pentagon. A lot of you were really young then. It was a terrifying moment in American history. And then we got into two wars and for the first time in American history, our president did not pay for either of those wars. That was all borrowed money. And then they took their eyes off the financial markets and the mortgage markets and you know what happened.

So in 2008, after President Obama was elected for the first time. He asked me to come see him. I went to Chicago to see him. I didn’t know why. Turns out he wanted to ask me to be secretary of state. I didn’t know that at the time. But it was just the two of us. We were sitting there the first thing that came out of his mouth was: “They didn’t tell us how bad it was.” I said, “You know, President-Elect, I’ve heard that before.”

He said no, he said because both he and I were in the Senate when President Bush put forward the rescue plan. That was not going to be enough. We could have slid into a great depression. As bad as things were there could have been much worse. And American people really worked hard. We were losing 8,000 jobs a month. President Obama and his team went to work and saved the auto industry, cracked down on Wall Street abuses. I don’t think the president gets the credit he deserves for preventing us from falling even deeper into the ditch.

So now we are out and you know, our economy is recovering but not fast enough and not for everybody yet. So our job now is to build on what works, not to go back to what didn’t go well before, but that’s what you are going to be hearing from the other side. You are already hearing it. Slash taxes on the wealthy. Slash taxes on corporations. Let corporations write the rules. Destroy labor unions, forget about the fact that they helped to create the middle class and still today protect the rights of people.

And of course we hear from candidates on the other side about turning back the clock on women’s rights and there is one particular candidate who just seems to delight in insulting women in every chance he gets. I have to say, if he emerges, I would love to debate him.

So you know, I go around talking about all these issues talking about economic growth, economic fairness, long-term growth, and why it’s so important that we really help women be economically successful. It’s good for them, good for their families and good for their economies. And then Republicans say I am playing the “gender card” as if they’re not. And my response is this, if calling for equal pay for equal work is playing the “gender card,” then deal me in. I am ready to play.

Now, I am so thrilled to be here and honestly, I could go on and on, but we have things to do. We have a lot of students here I suppose. Are we Ohio State students? How do you feel about the Buckeyes? I love it. I love it. Well what I want to tell is that as you watch the Republicans is just try to imagine for yourself, what is their vision for America?

I want you to think of this election the following way: What will America be like if one of them were to win? Right? No but you’ve got to because you’ve got to understand why this election is so important, especially for young people.

I want you to listen to their next debate. Find out what they say about making college affordable or trying to pay off student debt, or equal pay for equal work, or health care, or how we get drug prices down.

Just listen and see what you think about what they would do as your president. Because then you have to make a decision and if you make the decision to be a part of my campaign which I hope you will. Then, I want you to put you to work. I want you to be part of this campaign to lay out an agenda about what we will do together. Because of having lived in the White House and because of having served in the administration of President Obama, I know how hard those two presidents worked, but I know you cannot achieve what you want for America unless the American people are part of it. And I want you not just to be part of my campaign but to be part of what I do as your president.

I have spent a lifetime fighting for the underdogs. Maybe that is because my mother had such a terrible life. She was the most important woman in my life. And I did not know when she was a little girl that she had been abandoned by her parents and rejected by her grandparents. She was working as a housemaid by the age of 14. I didn’t know that. I just knew she was a great mom. You know, she made me grilled cheese sandwiches with tomato soup. She loved sports so we would throw the ball around. She taught me to play tennis. She was a great mom. And then I learned when I got a little older what she had to go through to be my mother, how resilient and tenacious she had to be.

And then I got to thinking about all the people who have face tough odds in their life. Every one of us has some story to tell and what my mother taught me is you can be knocked down, but not knocked out. You have to get right back up. You have to figure out how you are going to do what you need to do. You know, that’s why when I graduated law school I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, advocating, you know, for poor kids, neglected kids, abused kids, kids with disabilities, because I thought man I have had such a blessed life. I want to give it back in some way. I have been so privileged to do that.

You know, representing poor people, defending their rights, advocating for health care, being knocked down the first time and getting back up and getting children’s health care program coverage for more than 8 million kids. Just constantly have to be prepared to keep going and that’s kind of the story for America.

This is the greatest country in the history of the world. Are we perfect? No we are not perfect, but would you want to live anywhere else? No! And do most people when they think about where they would like to live in the world, still want to live here? Yes. So we just have to keep perfecting and improving this exceptional, extraordinary, country of ours. And this election could be about all of us feeling good about what’s good for America and vowing to fix what’s wrong with America. And, for me, we have to build this campaign. We have to spread the word.

I want you to join right now. You can text Join. JOIN to 47246. You can go to hillaryclinton.com for more information. I want to encourage some of the young people here like Jaiza to run for office. You know, start in your local community, make a difference. Make sure your views are heard, but approach it with what I think our founders expected us to do. They had big differences. Go back and read early American history. They didn’t always like each other. They didn’t get along with each other. They figured out that they were a part of something bigger than themselves. And they kept working to find consensus, to make a compromise. That’s the way we are supposed to work.

We have too many people in Washington who think it is there way or the highway, that they have all the answers, that they are right and everybody else is wrong. That’s not a democracy, folks. That’s not who we should be or are. So I want to bring back the good old fashioned idea that we are going to sit down, we are going to talk together, we are going to work together. We are not going to give up until we have some answers to people’s problems because this election is about you not about those of us running for, or holding, office.

So if we wage this campaign together. And we do it with the right attitude, and we win in November 2016, then I’m going to want each and every one of you to come to the inauguration so we can get it off to a good start. And just remember, together we can build an America where everyone has a shot of achieving their dreams and living up to their potential. We can build an America where we are working with one another, helping one another, having each other’s back, again. And we can build an America where every father can say to his daughter: You can grow up to be the president of the United States. Thank you very much!
