It’s so great to be in Ohio. I love this state – where I once worked – and I love the people of this state.

I have a message for all of you tonight: we are going to win Ohio, we are going to win the White House, and we are going to bring back your jobs.

We are going to negotiate fair trade deals that put American workers first.

We are going to stop the product dumping, the unfair foreign subsidies, and the currency manipulation. We are going to stop the foreign cheating.

The era of economic surrender is over.

A new era of American Greatness is beginning.

No state has been hurt worse by the Hillary Clinton trade policies than Ohio.

Hillary Clinton backed her husband’s NAFTA, she backed China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization, she backed the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, and backed the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

One bad deal after another.

Hillary Clinton’s donors own her, and she will do whatever they tell her to do.

Ohio and the Akron area have lost nearly 1 in 3 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA.

This region and this state have lost nearly 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization.

Our trade deficit in goods with the world is now nearly $800 billion dollars. This subtracts directly from our growth – our economy grew only 1.2 percent in the last quarter, a total disaster.

This is the legacy of Obama-Clinton.

I am promising a new legacy for America.

We are going to create a New American Future.

But to do that, we have to stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Our trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs last year. Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved.

Hillary Clinton, who called the TPP the “Gold Standard”, would 100% approve it if she ever got in. Her closest friend, Terry McAuliffe, confirmed that she would.

We won’t let that happen.

We will win this election, and we will keep America out of the TPP.

We will defend our freedom, our jobs, and our economic independence.

It’s going to be America First.

My economic plan is going to grow this economy, raise your wages, and create millions of new jobs.

Here are a few of the things we will do:

A massive tax cut for working Americans, and a 15% tax rate for small businesses.

We are going to eliminate regulations that kill American jobs, and that includes getting rid of the Obama Administration’s new anti-energy rules that will raise Ohio energy bills by more than 40 percent.

These Obama-Clinton energy restrictions are a tax on the poor, and they devastate low-income African-American and Latino workers.

Ohio gets 60% of its electricity from coal-powered energy.

Hillary Clinton says she wants to “put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business.” Just like she wants to put the steel workers out of business.

We are going to put the miners and the steel workers back to work – and we are going to get your energy bills down.

We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare, saving another 2 million jobs over the next decade.

Another major part of our agenda is law and order. More than 2,600 have been shot in Chicago alone since the beginning of this year.

This is one of the biggest differences between me and my opponent. I believe that safety is a right that belongs to all Americans.

Let me take this opportunity to thank the law enforcement officers here in this city, and across this country, for their service and sacrifice in difficult times.

Working with communities and police, I pledge to bring safety to communities across this land – but especially to those places that have not known safety in a very, very long time.

I want every parent and child in this society – including every African-American and Hispanic citizen – to be able to live in a safe, thriving and prosperous community.

This is the New American Future that we are working together to create.

Hillary Clinton is the past.

We are the future.

Another major part of our agenda is immigration security. We need to protect American jobs. We need to protect American safety.

Low-income workers are hurt the most by my opponent’s policies. Poor Hispanic and African-American citizens are the first to lose a job, or see a pay cut, when we don’t control our borders.

According to Pew Research, immigration over the next fifty years will add another 100 million to our population. It will be much, much more than even that under Hillary Clinton’s radical plans. That’s unfair to the low-income workers – African-American, Latino, all Americans – living here today and trying to get ahead.

Hillary Clinton has forgotten the first rule of public service. The job of an elected official is to serve the citizens of the United States. If you don’t understand that, then you cannot run for President.

If you are not prepared to put American workers first, then you should not hold or seek public office.

It’s just that simple.

No issue better illustrates how corrupt my opponent is than her pay-for-play scandals as Secretary of State.

As the evidence has become public over the last several months, I have become increasingly shocked by the vast scope of Hillary Clinton’s criminality.

Hillary Clinton said she turned over all of her work related emails. She testified that to Congress under penalty of perjury. Now we learn about another 15,000 emails she failed to turn over have just been discovered.

Colin Powell just proved again how dishonest Hillary Clinton is after he busted her for trying to pin her email scandal on him – one more Hillary Clinton lie.

Her Foundation took in large payments from major corporations and wealthy individuals, foreign and domestic, all while she was Secretary of State.

The Clinton Foundation accepted as much as $60 million dollars from Middle Eastern countries that oppress women, gays and people of different faiths.

The Foundation donors included corporations and individuals with significant matters before the State Department. And then either Hillary Clinton herself or one of her closest aides took action favorable to the donor.

Her actions corrupted and disgraced one of the most important Departments of government, indeed one of only four established by the United States Constitution itself.

The Clintons’ made the State Department into the same kind of Pay-to-Play operations as the Arkansas Government was: pay the Clinton Foundation huge sums of money and throw in some big speaking fees for Bill Clinton and you got to play with the State Department.

The amounts involved, the favors done and the significant numbers of times it was done require an expedited investigation by a Special Prosecutor. After the FBI and Department of Justice whitewash of the Clinton email crimes, they certainly cannot be trusted to quickly or impartially investigate Hillary Clinton’s crimes.

Some former prosecutors have even suggested that the coordination between the pay-for-play State Department and the corrupt Clinton Foundation constitute a clear example of a RICO (Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organization) enterprise.

The Justice Department is required to appoint an independent Special Prosecutor because it has proven itself to be a political arm of the White House.

The DOJ has acted very unethically, particularly the Attorney General’s private lengthy meeting with Bill Clinton shortly before the Department’s decision not to prosecute her for crimes that would have been prosecuted against almost any other citizen.

If the Justice Department fails to do so, it will make it even clearer that a second of the four primary constitutional Departments have been corrupted.

Here is one example of Clinton Corruption.

As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton signed off on a deal allowing Russians to take an increased stake in a company called Uranium One, giving up control of about 20 percent of America’s uranium supply to the Russians. Clinton’s approval of the deal netted the owners of the uranium company millions of dollars. In exchange for signing off on the deal, some of the former owners of Uranium One gave the Clinton Foundation millions of dollars in donations. In addition, Bill Clinton received $500,000 for a speech to a Kremlin-backed investment firm that was a beneficiary of the deal.

Here is another example of pay-for-play.

In 2009, Ericsson telecommunications came under U.S. pressure for selling telecom equipment to several oppressive governments – including Sudan, Syria, and Iran. Some these regimes used those technologies to monitor and control their own people.

In June 2011, Hillary Clinton’s State Department began adding goods and services to a list that might be covered under expanded sanctions on Iran and other state sponsors of terrorism.

During that time, Ericsson sponsored a speech by Bill Clinton, paying him $750,000 – his highest paying speech.

In April 2012, the Obama Administration issued an executive order imposing sanctions on telecom sales to Iran and Syria –but those sanctions did not cover Ericsson’s work in Iran.

A Trump Administration will end the government corruption.

No one will be above the law.

We will have one set of rules for everyone. In Hillary Clinton’s world, we have one set of rules for her – and another set of rules for everyone else.

I am fighting for everyone who doesn’t have a voice. The forgotten men and women of America.

I am your voice.

Hillary Clinton’s campaign is funded by Wall Street and hedge fund managers.

My campaign is powered by my own money, but also by small dollar donations from working people across this country who want their country back.

Nothing terrifies the ruling class more than when everyday working people give 5, 10, or 15 dollars to our campaign to help us take government away from the special interests and give it back to the voters.

Come November 8th, we are once again going to have a government that serves you, your family, and your country.

We are going to rebuild our depleted military, avoid needless foreign wars, build new friendships overseas, and remember those three famous words: Peace Through Strength.

We are going to work with our allies to crush, defeat, and utterly destroy ISIS.

We are going to have a new immigration screening test to keep people out of our country who don’t support our tolerant values.

We are also going to reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees people of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future.

The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city for half a century or more. They have produced only more poverty, failing schools, and broken homes.

In the last eight years, the African-American labor force participation has declined another 3 percentage points – and it’s dropped another 6 percent for teenagers. Nearly 4 in 10 African-American children live in poverty. African-American home ownership has declined nearly ten percentage points.

Meanwhile, since 2009, another 2 million Latinos have fallen into poverty. Incomes for Latino workers fell by almost another $1,000 dollars.

Meanwhile, homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. The level of crime in these cities is something no American should consider acceptable. Our government has failed these residents.

For those hurting the most – who have been failed again and again by their politicians – I’ve asked in recent days, what do you have to lose by trying something new? If you keep voting for the same failed politicians you will keep getting the same results. But, most importantly, I want to talk about what you have to gain. Those hurting in our county have so much to gain by joining our campaign for a new, and more inclusive, American Future.

My tax reforms will add millions of new jobs and thousands of new small businesses.

My energy reforms will create millions of new jobs and lower the price of your energy bill.

My trade reforms will raise wages, grow jobs and add trillions in new wealth into our country.

My immigration reforms will protect your jobs and stop businesses from exploiting visa programs that hurt poor workers.

My infrastructure plans will rebuild your roads, bridges and airports.

My regulatory reforms will make it easier for African-Americans small businesses to thrive, and for young children to live out their dreams.

My promise of school choice, charter schools and merit-pay for teachers will help low-income students in our inner cities. Hillary Clinton discriminates against poor African-American children by opposing school choice.

My government reforms will make your voice heard – not the voice of the special interests.

Every insider, getting rich off of our broken system, is throwing money at Hillary Clinton.

It’s the powerful protecting the powerful.

Insiders fighting for insiders.

I am fighting for you.

Every day you turn on the nightly news, you hear about how some self-interested banker or some Washington insider says they oppose our campaign. Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign. Or some big time lobbyist says they oppose our campaign.

I wear their opposition as a badge of honor. Because it means I am fighting for REAL change, not just partisan change. I am fighting – all of us across the country are fighting – for peaceful regime change in our own country. The media-donor-political complex that’s bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.

I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity – a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.

I am asking for your vote so I can be your champion in the White House.

To every parent who dreams for their children, and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I’m with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you.

Together, We Will Make America Strong Again.

We Will Make American Safe Again.

And We Will Make America Great Again.

Thank you, and God Bless.